.ad b
.TH dcp 1 "18 June 1999" "CORE software" "CORE software"
.AT 3
.de sh
.br
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.PP
.SH NAME
.PP
.I dcp
- discrete communication protocol client.
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.I dcp
message [port]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I dcp
is a way of passing messages to 
.BR netl (8)
and related programs.  
in the case of 
.BR netl (8)
there is currently only two messages you can
send it.
.PP
"netl:readconfig" will order 
.BR netl (8)
(if it's listening, see the man
page for details on the 
.I listen
directive) to terminate it's current
configuration and read the netl.conf file again.  this is handy if you
make modifications to netl.conf while 
.BR netl (8)
is running.
.PP
"hwpassive:write" tells 
.BR hwpassive (8)
to write its database to disk.  
it is wise to do this occasionally, in case of system crash.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
run 
.BR netl (8)
with the listen directive, then type this, as a ordinary
user:
.PP
% dcp "netl:readconfig"
.PP
if it worked, then there should be a note in the netl output (typically,
this is sent to syslogd) that the configuration was re-read.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR netl (8),
.BR netl.conf (5),
.BR netlcc (1),
.BR netl_install (1),
.BR netl_module (1),
.BR neta (1),
.BR hwpassive (8),
.BR hwlookup (1),
.BR dcp (1)
and 
.BR xd (1)
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
there are almost certainly bugs, please report them to me.  send bugs and
bug fixes to netl@netl.org.  the netl home page is at
http://www.netl.org, which should contain up to date information on
.B netl
.
.PP
i have attempted to write pretty readable documentation, however, i'm not
really the best technically writer.  if you are, maybe we could
colaborate?
.PP
.SH COPYING
.PP
Copyright 1996, 1997, 1999 Graham THE Ollis
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General
Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.PP
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Graham THE Ollis <ollisg@netl.org>
