.ad b
.TH hwlookup 1 "23 July 1999" "CORE software" "CORE software"
.AT 3
.de sh
.br
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.PP
.SH NAME
.PP
.I hwlookup
- query the ethernet hardware address database off-line.
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.I hwlookup
[options] address [ address [ ... ] ]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
when 
.BR hwpassive (8)
exits, it leaves behind a database of the new
address mappings it has found.  while 
.BR hwpassive (8)
is running, you
are incouraged to use its set of 
.BR dcp (1)
commands to query the
database realtime.  when it is not running, you can use 
.I hwlookup
instead.
.PP
addess can either be an IP address, or a ethernet hardware address.  IP
addresses must be specified as a dotted decimal, but may be followed by a
netmask.  ie.
.PP
% hwlookup 150.135.0.0/16
.PP
returns all entries for the 150.135 subnet.  for ethernet hardware
addresses, you need only specify the first digits if you wish, ie
.PP
% hwlookup 00:d0:c0
.PP
will match all ethernet hardware addresses beginning with the prefix
00:d0:c0.
.PP
there are two output modes, short and long.  the long mode is default and
spits out more information.  here is an example of a long output
.PP
==============================================
HW:             00:c0:4f:93:6d:8c
IP:             128.196.51.111
first seen:     Fri Jul 23 11:42:32 1999
last seen:      Fri Jul 23 12:18:34 1999
card info:      Dell
.PP
.B HW
and 
.B IP
are clearly the hardware/IP address mappings.  
.B first seen
and 
.B last seen
are respectively the first and last time
the mapping had been seen by 
.BR hwpassive (8).
.B card info
specifies the
vendor who uses the 3 byte prefix, if found in the hwcode database of
known manufacturer/prefix mappings.
.PP
note that the database file used by hwpassive and hwlookup are specific
to their version of netl, and are also not platform portable.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
-v, -r, --resolve, --dont-resolve, -d, --debug, --help work as described
in the 
.BR netl (8)
man page.
.PP
.PP
.B -f
.I filename
, 
.B --file
.I filename
	specifies the database file which should be read, instead of
/usr/local/lib/netl/hwpassive.
.PP
.B -s
, 
.B --short
	use short output mode.  only the hardware/IP address mapping will
be printed on a single line.
.PP
.B -l
, 
.B --long
	use long output mode.  the address mapping will be followed by
the time the mapping was first seen, last seen, and the manufacturer of
the card, if known.
.PP
.SH HISTORY
.PP
the genesis for this program came about when the author and a friend of
his were tracking quake users on their university LAN.  thanks to the
networking knowledge of said friend, determined programming of the author,
and dominos pizza, we were able to track nearly every anonymous quaker to
an email address, phone number, dorm, and sometimes even their room
number.
.PP
note that neither the author, nor the author's friend play quake anymore,
and do not condone the senseless violence in many of today's video games.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR netl (8),
.BR netl.conf (5),
.BR netlcc (1),
.BR netl_install (1),
.BR netl_module (1),
.BR neta (1),
.BR hwpassive (8),
.BR hwlookup (1),
.BR dcp (1)
and 
.BR xd (1)
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
there are almost certainly bugs, please report them to me.  send bugs and
bug fixes to netl@netl.org.  the netl home page is at
http://www.netl.org which should contain up to date information on
.B netl
.
.PP
i have attempted to write pretty readable documentation, however, i'm not
really the best technically writer.  if you are, maybe we could
colaborate?
.PP
.SH COPYING
.PP
Copyright 1996, 1997, 1999 Graham THE Ollis
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General
Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.PP
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Graham THE Ollis <ollisg@netl.org>
