.ad b
.TH hwpassive 8 "2 July 1999" "CORE software" "CORE software"
.AT 3
.de sh
.br
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.PP
.SH NAME
.PP
.I hwpassive
- passively scan for, and keep a database of hardware/ip
address mappings.
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.I hwpassive
[options] ['config rule'] [...]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I hwpassive
is a program for gathering hardware/ip address mappings.  
it is implemented as a 
.BR netl (8)
module and 
.BR perl (1)
script front
end.  when 
.I hwpassive
sees a hardware address it has not seen before,
or if the existing mapping is different, then it will send it to syslogd
(default) or stdout (with the --background option).
.PP
.I hwpassive
writes its database to /usr/local/lib/netl/hwpassive on
exit, or if you send it the 
.BR dcp (1)
message "hwpassive:write", ie:
.PP
% hwpassive
.PP
% dcp "hwpassive:write"
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.I hwpassive
takes the same options and config rules as 
.BR netl (8)
.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR netl (8)
, 
.BR netl.conf (5)
, 
.BR netlcc (1)
, 
.BR netl_install (1)
,
.BR netl_module (1)
, 
.BR neta (1)
, 
.BR hwpassive (8)
, 
.BR dcp (1)
and 
.BR xd (1)
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
there are almost certainly bugs, please report them to me.  my email
address is Graham Ollis <ollisg@wwa.com>, and the CORE home page is at
http://www.wwa.com/~ollisg/netl/index.html, which should contain up to
date information on 
.B netl
.
.PP
.SH COPYING
.PP
Copyright 1996, 1997, 1999 Graham THE Ollis
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General
Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.PP
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Graham THE Ollis <ollisg@wwa.com>
