.ad b
.TH neta 1 "18 June 1999" "CORE software" "CORE software"
.AT 3
.de sh
.br
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.PP
.SH NAME
.PP
.I neta
- network packet analyzer
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.I neta
[options] file [...]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I neta
is a network packet analyzer.  it was designed to decode an IP
packet stored as a file.  usually this will be a packet dumped by
.BR netl (8).
first the address is shown, followed by header data.  the
final part is a hex dump, which displays offset, hex data, and character
data. because the header data is interpreted for you, it is not included
in the hex dump.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.I neta
uses a subset of the options from 
.BR netl (8).
these include -h,
-r and -v.  the reminder do not make sense.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR netl (8),
.BR netl.conf (5),
.BR netlcc (1),
.BR netl_install (1),
.BR netl_module (1),
.BR neta (1),
.BR hwpassive (8),
.BR hwlookup (1),
.BR dcp (1)
and 
.BR xd (1)
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
there are almost certainly bugs, please report them to me.  my email
address is Graham Ollis <ollisg@wwa.com>, and the CORE home page is at
http://www.wwa.com/~ollisg/netl/index.html, which should contain up to
date information on 
.B netl
.
.PP
i have attempted to write pretty readable documentation, however, i'm not
really the best technically writer.  if you are, maybe we could
colaborate?
.PP
.SH COPYING
.PP
Copyright 1996, 1997, 1999 Graham THE Ollis
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General
Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.PP
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Graham THE Ollis <ollisg@wwa.com>
