.ad b
.TH netl_install 1 "18 June 1999" "CORE software" "CORE software"
.AT 3
.de sh
.br
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.PP
.SH NAME
.PP
.B netl_install
- 
.I netl
install instructions.
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
these are directions for installing the 
.I netl
package.  you will need
to download the 
.I netl
package.  the latest version should be available
at ftp://sunsite.unc.edu/pub/Linux/system/network/monitor/
.PP
.SH DIRECTIONS
.PP
 AS NOT ROOT:
.PP
 1. type 'sh configure'
.PP
configure takes a few options which may be of interest, try 'sh configure
--help' for information.  in general, the defaults are reasonable.
.PP
 2. type `make'
.PP
 3. optionally run the regression tests.  you will need perl. type `make
test'.  any failed tests will produce `.ao' (actual output) files which
you can read, if you speak gibberish. alternatively, you can e-mail me
.ao files for any failed test case.
.PP
 4. take a look at conf/netl.conf.  modify it to your liking. at least,
READ IT, as this will save you a lot of trouble.
.PP
 AS ROOT
.PP
 5. type `netl -z -fconf/netl.conf -L.' to try out the configuration. go
to another virtual terminal and send yourself a ping (or something else
you are logging), come back and see if it shows up on the screen.
.PP
the -z tells 
.I netl
to run in the foreground, -f indicates the config
file and -L is for the module directory.  see 
.I netl
(8) for more
information on 
.B netl
options.
.PP
 6. type `make install'
.PP
 7. copy conf/netl.conf to your /etc directory, and run `netl' with no
arguments to have it run in the background.  when it runs in this manner,
output is sent to syslogd and will show up in your ~adm/messages file
(unless you modify 
.BR syslog.conf (5)).
you may want to run 
.B netl
from
one of your startup scripts in /etc/rc.d or thereabouts.
.PP
 8. read the documentation.  start with the 
.B netl
(8) man page.
.PP
.SH TK NETL
.PP
there is now a perl/Tk front end for netl, which you can optionally
install after the netl base has been installed.  you will need perl5 and
Tk8 or better.  these can be found at
.PP
ftp://ftp.cdrom.com/pub/perl/CPAN/src/
ftp://ftp.cdrom.com/pub/perl/CPAN/by-module/Tk/
.PP
once those are installed, you're ready to install tknetl.
.PP
 1. `cd face/perltk' from the netl dist.
.PP
 2. `perl Makefile.PL'
	this may ask you questions about where the netl library directory
or header files are located.  unless you did something funny when
installing the netl base, Makefile.PL should be able to find the library
unaided.
.PP
 3. `make'
.PP
 4. `make test'
	optionally.  currently the tests are very basic, essentially
making sure the Netl perl modules load correctly.  this doesn't even
check to see if you have perl/Tk.
.PP
 5. `make install'
	you may have to be root to do this, depending on how perl is
installed.
.PP
 6. `tknetl'
	should open up the tk version of the netl GUI interface.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR netl (8),
.BR netl.conf (5),
.BR netlcc (1),
.BR netl_install (1),
.BR netl_module (1),
.BR neta (1),
.BR hwpassive (8),
.BR hwlookup (1),
.BR dcp (1)
and 
.BR xd (1)
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
there are almost certainly bugs, please report them to me.  send bugs and
bug fixes to netl@netl.org.  the netl home page is at
http://www.netl.org, which should contain up to date information on
.B netl
.
.PP
i have attempted to write pretty readable documentation, however, i'm not
really the best technically writer.  if you are, maybe we could
colaborate?
.PP
.SH COPYING
.PP
Copyright 1996, 1997, 1999 Graham THE Ollis
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General
Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.PP
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Graham THE Ollis <ollisg@netl.org>
