.ad b
.TH netlcc 8 "25 June 1999" "CORE software" "CORE software"
.AT 3
.de sh
.br
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.PP
.SH NAME
.PP
.I netlcc
- convert 
.I netl
configuration files into 
.I netl
modules / 
.I gcc
front end for 
.I netl
modules
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.I netlcc
[gcc options] netl.conf
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
PLEASE NOTE: the 
.I netl
compiler is still somewhat experimental.  you
are encouraged to use it to generate 
.I netl
modules which you then
modify by hand.
.PP
.I netlcc
takes a 
.I netl
configuration file and converts it into a
.I netl
module, which can be loaded dynamically.  the advantage to a
.I netl
module is that it is compiled code and therefore theoretically
faster.  any .conf files are given to 
.BR netl (8)
to generate a .c file.  
this .c file is then compiled using 
.BR gcc (1)
, with any other options
that have been passed to the command line.  by default, a .so (shared
object file) is generated, which can be copied into the 
.I netl
modules
directory.
.PP
for more information on the 
.I netl
configuration format, see
.BR netl.conf (5)
.
.PP
for more information on 
.I netl
modules, see 
.BR netl_module (1)
.
.PP
for more information on 
.I netl
in general, see 
.BR netl (8)
.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.I netlcc
grabs two options, if seen, and passes the rest to gcc when it
reaches the compile stage.  therefore all the options you would expect to
work for a compiler such as -c or -O2 should work with 
.I netlcc
.
.PP
-generate-c
.PP
	generate c code and stop.  this is handy, if you want to hand
optimize the module generated from your configuration file.
.PP
-install
.PP
	once the module has been compiled successfully, this option will
direct 
.I netlcc
to install it in the correct place so that 
.BR netl (8)
can find it.  this option only works when compiling modules from
configuration files.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR netl (8)
, 
.BR netl.conf (5)
, 
.BR netlcc (1)
, 
.BR netl_install (1)
,
.BR netl_module (1)
, 
.BR neta (1)
, 
.BR hwpassive (8)
, 
.BR dcp (1)
and 
.BR xd (1)
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
there are almost certainly bugs, please report them to me.  my email
address is Graham Ollis <ollisg@wwa.com>, and the CORE home page is at
http://www.wwa.com/~ollisg/netl/index.html, which should contain up to
date information on 
.B netl
.
.PP
.SH COPYING
.PP
Copyright 1996, 1997, 1999 Graham THE Ollis
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General
Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.PP
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Graham THE Ollis <ollisg@wwa.com>
