.ad b
.TH xd 1 "18 June 1999" "White Dactyl Labs" "White Dactyl Labs"
.AT 3
.de sh
.br
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.PP
.SH NAME
.PP
.I xd
- hex dump
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.I xd
filename [ ... ]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I xd
will give you a hex dump of the files provided on the command line.  
in addition to the hex values, you get the (readable) ASCII values, and
the offset of the byte beginning on each line.  
.I xd
is a scaled down
version of the classic 
.BR od (1).
.I xd
was abstracted out of the
.BR neta (1)
source code in the 
.BR netl (8)
distribution, which is usefull
for sniffing logging arbitrary ethernet frames.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
none
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR netl (8),
.BR netl.conf (5),
.BR netlcc (1),
.BR netl_install (1),
.BR netl_module (1),
.BR netl_api (3),
.BR neta (1),
.BR hwpassive (8),
.BR hwlookup (1),
.BR dcp (1)
and 
.BR xd (1)
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
there are almost certainly bugs, please report them to me.  send bugs and
bug fixes to netl@netl.org.  the netl home page is at
http://www.netl.org which should contain up to date information on
.B netl
.
.PP
i have attempted to write pretty readable documentation, however, i'm not
really the best technically writer.  if you are, maybe we could
colaborate?
.PP
.SH COPYING
.PP
Copyright 1996, 1997, 1999, 2000 Graham THE Ollis
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General
Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.PP
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Graham THE Ollis <ollisg@netl.org>
